---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Problem 2.3
category: tech
tags: [ 'tutorial' ]
---
Fibonacci number F(n) 

<ol>
  <li>You probably know about Fibonacci numbers, where the n-th Fibonacci number F(n) is defined by F(0) = F(1) = 1, and F(n) = F(n-1) + F(n-2) for n > 1.  That is, the sequence of Fibonacci numbers starts 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13,..., where each number after the first two is the sum of the previous two numbers.  If you write a function to compute F(n) using the definition, each call to F(n) winds up calling F twice, with arguments n-1 and n-2, and the result is a number of recursive calls that is exponential in n.  In fact, the number of calls will BE the n-th Fibonacci number.  But there is a more efficient dynamic-programming algorithm, where you fill in a table or array, whose n-th entry is F(n).  You can fill it in from low-to-high, until you have the entry for the value of n that you want.  As a warm-up, you could try writing this dynamic-programming algorithm and comparing its running time with that of the recursive algorithm.</li>
  
  <li>But there is more to the story.  The straightforward dynamic programming algorithm takes a number of arithmetic steps that is linear in n to compute F(n).   It is truly remarkable that this is NOT the best way to compute large Fibonacci numbers.  In fact, it can be done in O(log n) arithmetic steps.  The technique is called "recursive doubling."  Here's an idea that does not work, but it might suggest an improvement that does.   Suppose we had a function Gk that, given F(n) for any n would compute F(n+k).  That is, Gk "advances" us from any Fibonacci number to the Fibonacci number that is k "down the line."   Suppose also, that we had a simple way to construct G2k from Gk.  Then by applying this construction log(n) times, we could get Gn, at least we could if n is a power of 2.  Then, we apply Gn to F(0), which is 1, to get F(n).  There are two things wrong.  First, G does not exist, and we cannot simply compute one Fibonacci number from another.  But there is something like G that can get us "down the line" from early Fibonacci numbers to later ones.  Second, n may not be a power of 2, so we need to fix up the algorithm to work for all n.  Have fun, and don't forget to put ideas on the Discussion Forum, but do not post the solution. </li>
</ol>

<p></p>
Please discuss your ideas and solutions below.

<pre><code data-trim class="yaml">
email: "your@email.here"
</code></pre>

Don't be afraid of email harvesting, write your email properly and the page will perform javascript obfuscation.

<small>Many thanks to <a href="http://i.stanford.edu/~ullman/focs.html" target="\_blank">@joariasl</a> for this feature!</small>
